# FSSIP
This Github project contains the data for Financial Stability Sentiments Index for Pakistan at an Annual as well as Quarterly frequency, computed using Financial Stability Reports of the State Bank of Pakistan (The Central Bank of Pakistan - https://www.sbp.org.pk/FSR/FSR.htm). The purpose is to make this index public so that the researchers, professionals especially bankers, students, and academics can use this index for further research on economy of Pakistan. The index will be updated as the new Financial Stability Report of the Central Bank becomes available on its website. 

The Paper which introduced this index is titled as: "Measuring the financial stability sentiments and evaluating their impacts on financial soundness, financial stability, and the macroeconomy of Pakistan"

Abstract of the paper is pasted below to provide an idea of how this index has already been used in context of Pakistan and provides useful information about the information content of this index. Therefore, before using it in your analysis it is highly recommended that you read this paper first. It is available at: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s41685-024-00362-6

Abstract: This paper measures the Financial Stability Sentiments Index (FSSI) for the economy of Pakistan, an interesting country case due to its resilient banking sector. We used a Natural Language Processing technique to quantify these sentiments from annual financial stability review reports published by the State Bank of Pakistan, central bank of Pakistan. The index captured events of high and low financial stress in Pakistan, such as the Global Financial Crisis and recent tightening by the Federal Reserve. Regarding the information content of our index, it serves as a leading indicator for selected indicators of financial soundness in Pakistan. Further, asymmetric analysis of the impact of financial stability sentiments on financial stability showed that improvements in the FSSI lead to a higher distance-to-default for two sets of diverse banking institutions in Pakistan, indicating improved financial stability as bank assets far outweigh their obligations. Finally, the index shows an intuitive and significant impact on selected financial soundness indicators as well as the real macroeconomic variables in Pakistan.

Note: If you use this in your research/report, please cite in Paragraph is Syed et al. (2024) and refer to it in there reference as "Syed, A.A.S., Lee, K.H., Waheed, M., Saleh, S., Measuring the financial stability sentiments and evaluating their impacts on financial soundness, financial stability, and the macroeconomy of Pakistan. Asia-Pacific Journal of Regional Science (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s41685-024-00362-"6															

